---
title: '0.53.0'
weight: -53
---

# [0.53.0](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf/releases/tag/0.53.0)

(June 2024)

0.53.0 is a huge release with major improvements and changes. Bugs are
expected, so please report them if you find any.

## Multi-line display

Finally, fzf can now display multi-line items properly. And CTRL-R bindings
(command history) for all three shells have been updated to leverage this and
display multi-line commands in their original form.

And here are some other examples.

### All bash/zsh functions, highlighted

This uses [bat](https://github.com/sharkdp/bat) to syntax-highlight the
functions.

```sh
declare -f | perl -0777 -pe 's/^}\n/}\0/gm' |
  bat --plain --language bash --color always |
  fzf --read0 --ansi --reverse --multi --highlight-line
```

### Ripgrep multi-line output

This isn't particularly useful, but it demonstrates how fzf can handle
multi-line entries.

```sh
rg --pretty bash | perl -0777 -pe 's/\n\n/\n\0/gm' |
  fzf --read0 --ansi --exact --multi --highlight-line --reverse --tmux 70%
```

I used `--exact` option here, because in this case, fuzzy matching yields too
many irrelevant matches.

## Native tmux integration

fzf has been shipped with fzf-tmux script which allows you to open fzf in
a tmux pane or popup. But to simplify the distribution, 0.53.0 adds `--tmux`
option, which implements the same functionality natively.

```sh
# --tmux [center|top|bottom|left|right][,SIZE[%]][,SIZE[%]]
# Center, 100% width and 70% height
fzf --tmux 100%,70% --border horizontal --padding 1,2

# Left, 30% width
fzf --tmux left,30%

# Bottom, 50% height
fzf --tmux bottom,50%
```

You can add it to your `$FZF_DEFAULT_OPTS` so that it's globally applied.

```sh
export FZF_DEFAULT_OPTS='--tmux 100%,70% --border horizontal --padding 1,2'
```

But to use it on Vim, you also have set specify the option in `g:fzf_layout`.

```vim
let g:fzf_layout = { 'tmux': '100%,70%' }
```

## `--tail=NUM` for browsing stream data

Added `--tail=NUM` option to limit the number of items to keep in memory. This
is useful when you want to browse an endless stream of data (e.g. log stream)
with fzf while limiting memory usage.

```sh
# Interactive filtering of a log stream
tail -f *.log | fzf --tail 100000 --tac --no-sort --exact
```

## Default changes

0.53.0 introduces a few changes to the default options.

* The default `--pointer` and `--marker` have been changed from `>` to Unicode
  bar characters as they look nice both with single-line and multi-line items
* Changed the default `--scroll-off` to 3 from 0, as we think it's a better default

## Better Windows support

Many Windows-specific issues have been fixed in this release. fzf and its
shell integration now run out of the box on Git bash.

```sh
eval "$(fzf --bash)"
```

## Embedded man page

This is yet another attempt to simplify the distribution (no need to carry
around auxiliary files, all you need is a single fzf binary). The man page
is now included in the binary and you can view it with `fzf --man`.

## Better ergonomics

* Process started by `execute` action now directly writes to and reads from
  `/dev/tty`. Manual `/dev/tty` redirection for interactive programs is no
  longer required.
  ```sh
  # Vim will work just fine without /dev/tty redirection
  ls | fzf --bind 'space:execute:vim {}' > selected
  ```
* [`NO_COLOR`](https://no-color.org/) environment variable is now respected.
  If the variable is set, fzf defaults to `--no-color` unless otherwise
  specified.
