---
title: '0.60.0'
weight: -600
---

# [0.60.0][0.60.0]

(February 2025)

[0.60.0]: https://github.com/junegunn/fzf/releases/tag/v0.60.0

## Choosing output fields

This release introduces `--accept-nth` option for choosing fields to print on
exit.

It can be used to replace `cut`, `sed`, or `awk` in the post-processing step.

```sh
# Use 'awk' to print the second field
ps -ef | fzf --multi --header-lines 1 | awk '{print $2}'
# Now you can do this with fzf
ps -ef | fzf --multi --header-lines 1 --accept-nth 2

# Use 'cut' to remove the first two characters ('* ')
git branch | fzf | cut -c3-
# Tell fzf to only print the last field
git branch | fzf --accept-nth -1
```

This may not be a very "Unix-y" approach, so I've always felt that fzf
shouldn't have such an option, but I've finally changed my mind for the
following reasons:

* When using a custom `--delimiter` (fixed string or regular expression),
  you don't want to repeat yourself in the post-processing step.
  e.g. `fzf -d: ... | awk -F: ...`
* Also, tools like `awk` or `sed` may interpret a regular expression
  differently, leading to unexpected results.
* _The field index expression_ <sup>TM</sup> of fzf is a very compact and
  expressive way of specifying fields, and it's not always easy to replicate
  in `awk` or `sed`.


Previously, users could achieve similar functionality using the `become` action:

```sh
ps -ef | fzf --multi --header-lines 1 --bind 'enter:become(echo {+2})'
```

However, this approach has some drawbacks:

* Intimidating for new users, as it requires understanding `--bind` and
  `become`.
* Less portable (e.g. different shell)
* Doesn't work very well with multiple selections.
    * To print each selection on a separate line, you need a different command
      than `echo`.
    * This breaks when the number of selections is extremely large.

So overall, I believe this is a nice quality-of-life improvement, though it
might anger the ancient Unix gods (or a past me).

Hold on, we're not done yet.

## Advanced transformation using templates

### `--accept-nth`

The new `--accept-nth` not only accepts a single field index expression, but
a template that includes multiple field index expressions in curly braces.

```sh
# Single expression
echo foo bar baz | fzf --accept-nth 2
  # bar

# Template
echo foo bar baz | fzf --accept-nth '1st: {1}, 2nd: {2}, 3rd: {3}'
  # 1st: foo, 2nd: bar, 3rd: baz
```

### `--with-nth`

`--with-nth` has been a great option to hide a field or two from the input,
but for more complex transformations, it would yield unintuitive results.

```sh
echo foo,bar,baz | fzf --delimiter , --with-nth 1,3,..2
  # foo,bazfoo,bar,
```
> * `1` -> `foo,`
> * `3` -> `baz`
> * `..2` -> `foo,bar,`

While it was working as intended, it was not very useful or intuitive.

But if you use a template, the trailing delimiter for each placeholder is
removed, and you have precise control over the transformation.

```sh
echo foo,bar,baz | fzf --delimiter , --with-nth '{1},{3},{..2}'
  # foo,baz,foo,bar
```

{{< notice info >}}
The template only supports field index expressions in curly braces. It doesn't
support other placeholders like `{q}`, `{+}`, or `{n}`.
{{< /notice >}}

## Dynamically excluding items

The new `exclude` action allows users to mark the current item as "excluded",
removing it from subsequent results.

```sh
seq 100 | fzf --bind 'ctrl-x:exclude'
```

Previously, you would have to `reload` the entire list to exclude certain
items.

You'll notice that when items are excluded, the total item count doesn't
change. This was a deliberate design choice to indicate that some items
are "excluded", not that the list has been fully "reloaded" and replaced.

To exclude multiple items at once, you can use `exclude-multi` action.

```sh
# 'exclude-multi' will exclude the selected items or the current item
seq 100 | fzf --multi --bind 'ctrl-x:exclude-multi'
```

## Bug fixes and improvements

As always, there are several bug fixes and improvements in this release. So
please go ahead and upgrade. The latest fzf is the best fzf.

* Improved scrolling performance when using `--wrap` option ([#4221](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf/issues/4221))
* Improved preview window to print wrap indicator when wrapping is enabled ([#4233](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf/issues/4233))
* Fixed `nth` highlighting bug ([#4222](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf/issues/4222))
* Fixed edge case where header label is not initially visible ([#4227](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf/issues/4227))
* [fish] Fixed CTRL-T binding to properly handle prefix with special characters ([#4230](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf/issues/4230), [#4236](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf/issues/4236))
* Fixed suffix match on `--nth` element when a custom `--delimiter` is used ([#3983](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf/issues/3983))
